[CI-5455] [DOC-2581] - Windows support on Hosted (#655)
harness/developer-hub: docs/continuous-integration/ci-quickstarts/hosted-builds-on-virtual-machines-quickstart.md

---
title: Get started with Harness Cloud
description: You can run your build on Harness-hosted VMs.
sidebar_position: 10
helpdocs_topic_id: jkh1wsvajv
helpdocs_category_id: pjovrkldfq
helpdocs_is_private: false
helpdocs_is_published: true
---

> With Harness Cloud you can run builds in isolation on Harness-hosted virtual machines (VMs). You can run builds at scale on Linux, Windows, and macOS machines that are pre-configured with tools, packages, and settings commonly used in CI pipelines.

Reviewer: Should we also give them a link to what tools are pre configured with the machines?

Author: @devkimittal Happy to add if you can provide that link.

Reviewer: Linux amd64 https://github.com/wings-software/virtual-environments/blob/hosted-vm-64/images/linux/Ubuntu2204-Readme.md
Linux arm64 https://github.com/wings-software/virtual-environments/blob/hosted-vm-164-arm/images/linux/Ubuntu2204-Readme.md
Windows amd64 https://github.com/wings-software/virtual-environments/blob/hosted-vm-windows-98/images/win/Windows2019-Readme.md

Reviewer: This is the list but since this repo is private, this link won't be accessible by people outside wings-software org

Author: @devkimittal I'm going to mark this as resolved because I need to move this PR to peer review. We can figure out how to add details about the Hosted vms later.

> With Harness Cloud you can run builds in isolation on Harness-hosted virtual machines (VMs). You can run builds at scale on Linux, Windows, and macOS machines that are pre-configured with tools, packages, and settings commonly used in CI pipelines.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With Harness Cloud you can run builds in isolation on Harness-hosted virtual machines (VMs). You can run builds at scale on Linux, Windows, and macOS machines that are preconfigured with the tools, packages, and settings that are commonly used in CI pipelines.
```

> Harness hosts, maintains, and upgrades these machines so that you can focus on building great software instead of maintaining build infrastructure.

Reviewer 2: Based on my editorial experience, I would omit the word "great" and just say "building software".

Harness Cloud provides the following advantages:

> * Get free monthly credits for up to 2,000 build minutes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Free monthly credits for up to 2,000 build minutes.
```

> * Get started quickly with starter pipelines for different programming languages.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Starter pipelines for different programming languages.
```

> * Run blazing fast builds.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Blazing fast builds.
```

> * Run anywhere. Use hosted runners to run your builds on Linux, macOS, or Windows.

Author: Removed "coming soon" for windows.

> * Run anywhere. Use hosted runners to run your builds on Linux, macOS, or Windows.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure about how we use the terminology "hosted runners" but would shorten this bullet and make it start with a noun to match the others. Mostly, I just wanted to tighten things up in a consistent manner and eliminate some of the redundant use of language (like "run" and "runners" or "started" and "starter." You can reject all.

[Sign up now](https://harness.io/products/continuous-integration) to get started.

> For a comparison of build infrastructure options, go to [Which build infrastructure is right for me?](../use-ci/set-up-build-infrastructure/which-build-infrastructure-is-right-for-me.md)

Reviewer 2: The Microsoft Style Guide says to use "go to" for UI references. For cross-references in docs, it should still be "see" or something more readerly. When I asked about "go to" I was told that Clare had added that to the style guide but I'm pretty certain that she interpreted the guideline incorrectly. We should have that guideline removed from the style guide.

Author: @KimberlyFields Could you please confirm if "go to" is acceptable or if we should only use "go to" before UI navigation instructions? I rewrote so many links as "go to" and I have been editing other's topics based on what our style guide says.

## What happens when pipelines run on Harness Cloud?

> During a pipeline run that uses Harness Cloud build infrastructure, Harness executes each CI stage in a new, ephemeral VM.

Reviewer 2: Some style guides don't like "execute" or "kill" for reasons of geopolitical sensitivities. I write around "execute" when I can. You could use something like "performs" or "runs" here.

![Example pipeline on Harness Cloud](./static/hosted-builds-on-virtual-machines-quickstart-11.png)

> All steps in the stage execute on the VM, allowing the steps in that job to share information using the underlying filesystem. You can run CI steps either directly on the VM or in a Docker container. When the job is finished, the VM is automatically terminated.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The steps in the stage execute on the VM. This allows the job steps to use the underlying file system to share information. You can run CI steps on the VM or in a Docker container. When the job completes, the VM shuts down.
```

### Sample pipeline

> The following example YAML file shows a pipeline with one CI stage that contains a __Run__ step executing an `echo` command. The `platform` property defines the target machine where the stage is executed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following YAML shows a pipeline with one CI stage that contains a __Run__ step executing an `echo` command. The `platform` property defines the target machine where the stage is executed.
```

```
 pipeline:
  projectIdentifier: Docs
  orgIdentifier: default
  identifier: Hello_World
  name: Hello World
  properties:
    ci:

>       codebase: // The codebase section is needed if the stage is set to automatically clone the codebase.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      codebase: //  Use the codebase section if the stage is set to automatically clone the codebase.
```

>       codebase: // The codebase section is needed if the stage is set to automatically clone the codebase.

Reviewer 2: I haven't worked with CI but the "//" comment convention is something I usually see with higher-level programming languages and not in YAML. I'd ask if these conform to syntax. See https://yaml.org/spec/1.2.2/

>         connectorRef: account.Github // The git connector holds your Docker credentials. It's needed to pull the image from Docker.

Reviewer 2: The code comments are explanation that should probably be elsewhere in the text or written using YAML code comment style in general. I tend to avoid starting sentences or using "it's" or "its" as much as possible since it can be vague.

Author: I didn't write any of this yaml and we have to do a YAML refresh for CI anyways. I'll deal w/ these when we do that.

        repoName: keen-software/jhttp
        build: <+input>
  stages:
    - stage:
        name: Print welcome message
        identifier: welcome_message
        type: CI
        spec:
          cloneCodebase: true

>           platform: // Platform properties are used to describe the target machine that is needed for the execution of the CI stage.

Reviewer 2: Another explanation that should really be included in the text and not as a code comment. You can reject all of this. Sometimes you can't change the comments in the code files and they must exactly match the original file but here I've been able to edit them.

            os: Linux
            arch: Amd64
          runtime:

>             type: Cloud // To run the build on infrastructure provided by Harness.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            type: Cloud // Run the build on Harness-provided infrastructure.
```

            spec: {}
          execution:
            steps:
              - step:
                  type: Run
                  name: Welcome
                  identifier: Welcome
                  spec:
                    connectorRef: my_dockerhub // (Optional) The Docker connectors hold your Docker credentials. It's needed to pull the image from Docker.

>                     image: alpine // (Optional) If the image isn't provided, the step will run directly on the host machine,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
                    image: alpine // (Optional) If no image is specified, the step runs on the host machine,
```
